In this section

1. [The SSANTO engine](#the-ssanto-engine)
2. [Configuring SSANTO](#configuring-ssanto)

---

SSANTO is a spatial suitability analysis tool, which uses the techniques of GIS-MCDA (Geo-information systems and multi-criteria decision analysis) following multi-attribute value theory (MAVT).

## The SSANTO engine

### Speed

The SSANTO engine was built to ensure speed at every point in the processing workflow to guarantee an optimal experience for our users.

### Transparency

Since this is an open sourced project, the methodology and criterias that SSANTO uses to perform it's analysis are available for your scrutiny.

## Configuring SSANTO

The main functionality of SSANTO is to generate colour-coded, raster-based maps that indicate suitability for the implementation for a selected Nature-Based Solution (NBS), where dark red signifies low suitability and green signifies high suitability.

### Configuring the objective hierarchy

To do so, the SSANTO engine requires a couple of parameters, most of which have default values for your ease of use. However, you need to create a hierarchy of objectives.

The objectives have various parameters, but most commonly:

1. You need to select the type of the analysis: [opportunities or needs](#opportunities-vs-needs).
2. You need to select the [goals(s)](#goals) to satisfy your needs/opportunities. You may select one or many.
3. For each goal, select the [bundle(s)](#bundles) that describes it.
4. For each package, select the [attribute(s)](#attributes) that describes it.
5. For each attribute, you will need to select a data file, upon which the analysis will be based.
6. Optionally, you may scale and weight the attributes.

#### Opportunities vs needs

There are two separate analyses corresponding to the two sides of suitability: opportunities and needs. Opportunities relates to those locations that are most suitable to implementation of NBS, while needs relates to those locations where the benefits of NBS are needed most.

#### Goals

There are many separate goals to select form, depending on opportunities and needs.

For example, say you selected `opportunities`, associated goals could very well be:

- Optimising systems performance;
- Minimising systems implementation costs;
- Maximising ease of integration in urban planning.

#### Bundles

Bundles allow the user to group it's attributes.

There are many separate bundles to select form, depending on the goal it's describing.

For example, say you wanted to describe the `Optimising systems performance` goal for the above-mentionned analysis, associated bundles could very well be:

- Protecting systems from being contaminated;
- Prioritise soils with optimal caracteristics;
- Prioritise locations that have the right amount of rainfall.

#### Attributes

Attributes are the founding block of the multi-criteria decision analysis. They specify what is being analysed, and the associated data.

There are many separate attributes to select form, depending on the goal and bundle it's describing.

For example, say you wanted to describe the `Protecting systems from being contaminated` bundle in the `Optimising systems performance` goal for the above-mentionned analysis, associated attributes could very well be:

- Distance to landfill or contaminated sites;
- Distance from a spent snow deposition site or a salt de-icing storage facility.

Of course, each attribute must be accompanied by a file with information so that SSANTO can extract the data and use it in it's analysis.
