In this section

1. [What is an Objectives Hierarchy?](#what-is-an-objectives-hierarchy?)
2. [How to select an Objectives Hierarchy?](#how-to-select-an-objectives-hierarchy?)

---

## What is an Objectives Hierarchy?

The Objectives Hierarchy will tell the system what are the various objectives, sub-objectives and attributes that will be used to perform the analysis.

For example, a complete Opportunities Objectives Hierarchy could look like this:

- Prioritise sites that offer the best opportunities for BMPs implementation
  - Optimising systems **performance**
    - Protecting systems from being contaminated
      - _Distance to landfill site or contaminated site \[0m - 8000m\]_
      - _Distance from a spent snow deposition site or a salt de-icing storage site \[m\]_
    - Prioritise soils with optimal characteristics
      - _Groundwater level \[1m - 60m\]_
      - _Hydraulic conductivity by soil type \[m/s\]_
    - Prioritise locations that have the right amount of rainfall
      - _Number of days per year with more than 1 mm of rain \[143-151 days/year\]_
  - Minimising systems implementation **costs**
    - Prioritise appropriate slopes
      - _Percent slope \[0% - >25%\]_
    - Prioritise integration with existing drainage infrastructure
      - _Distance to rainwater sewer infrastructure \[0m - 6000m\]_
    - Minimising the cost of land acquisition
      - _Minicipal property tax rates \[$/100$\]_
  - Maximising **ease of integration** in urban planning
    - Prioritise easy-to-acquire land
      - _Authority that manages the land \[categories\]_
      - _Level of opportunities offered by an easement site \[categories\]_
    - Prioritise appropriate lot size
      - _Size of land \[100m2 - 1800000m2\]_
    - Maximising integration into the road network
      - _Speed limit \[30 - 100km/h\]_
    - Maximising opportunities from planned projects and works
      - _Presence of planned (re)developments projects \[0 - 1\]_
      - _Presence of road renewal project \[categories\]_

## How to select an Objectives Hierarchy?

To select an Objectives Hierarchy, you must:

1. Open the [File Explorer](#file-explorer) tab
2. elect shapefiles containing the data you would like to use in your analysis. The files will be matched to categories later.
3. Open the Objective Hierarchy tab
4. Select whether it is a Need or an Opportunity.
5. Add primary objectives by clicking on the "+" button below the main objective.
6. Add secondary objectives by clicking on the "+" button below the primary objectives.
7. Add attributes by clicking on the "+" button below the secondary objectives.
8. Add an attribute name, select a dataset, and select the data column.
9. Additional informations can be specified, based on the type of data in that column.
10. Click "Apply" to save the objectives hierarchy

_Note: You may, at any time, delete the hierarchy in part of in whole by clicking the red "-" button showing when hovering over the attribute, secondary or primary objective._
