In this section

1. [What does SSANTO do?](#what-does-ssanto-do?)
2. [What can SSANTO do for my users?](#what-can-ssanto-do-for-my-users?)
3. [What can SSANTO do for my developers?](#what-can-ssanto-do-for-my-developers?)

---

SSANTO is a spatial suitability analysis tool, which uses the techniques of GIS-MCDA (Geo-information systems and multi-criteria decision analysis) following multi-attribute value theory (MAVT).

## What does SSANTO do?

The main functionality of SSANTO is to generate colour-coded, raster-based maps that indicate suitability for the implementation for a selected Nature-Based Solution (NBS), where dark red signifies low suitability and green signifies high suitability.

## What can SSANTO do for my users?

There are two separate analyses corresponding to the two sides of suitability: opportunities and needs. Opportunities relates to those locations that are most suitable to implementation of NBS, while needs relates to those locations where the benefits of NBS are needed most.

SSANTO can help you visualize the results of a Multi-Decision Criteria Analysis and help you come with an informed decision using the included results analysis & visualization.

## What can SSANTO do for my developers?

This is a standalone platform, which is based upon the original SSANTO arcpy plugin ([^1]: More information about the inner workings and theory behind SSANTO can be found in Kuller et al. (2019a)).

While the original version (the plugin) was developped by Martijn Kuller, the standalone version has been redevelopped by a team of 5:

- Christophe Beaulieu
- Philippe Maisonneuve
- Louis Plessis
- Tristan Rioux
- Frédérique Roy

This project is open sourced and contributions are accepted. If you're looking to have an impact on an open sourced project, this is a great place to get started!
